---
layout: post
title: XML-Atom-0.22/lib/XML/Atom/Entry.pm
date: 2007-04-30 23:41:44 +0900
---
source:XML-Atom-0.22/lib/XML/Atom/Entry.pm


# NAME

XML::Atom::Entry - Atom entry


# SYNOPSIS


	
	    use XML::Atom::Entry;
	    my $entry = XML::Atom::Entry->new;
	    $entry->title('My Post');
	    $entry->content('The content of my post.');
	    my $xml = $entry->as_xml;
	    my $dc > 'http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/');
	    $entry->set($dc, 'subject', 'Food & Drink');
	

# USAGE


## XML::Atom::Entry->new([ $stream ])

Creates a new entry object, and if _$stream'' is supplied, fills it with the data specified by ''$stream_.

Automatically handles autodiscovery if _$stream_ is a URI (see below).

Returns the new _XML::Atom::Entry_ object. On failure, returns `undef`.

_$stream_ can be any one of the following:

* Reference to a scalar

 This is treated as the XML body of the entry.

* Scalar

 This is treated as the name of a file containing the entry XML.

* Filehandle

 This is treated as an open filehandle from which the entry XML can be read.



## $entry->content([ $content ])

Returns the content of the entry. If _$content_ is given, sets the content of the entry. Automatically handles all necessary escaping.


## $entry->author([ $author ])

Returns an _XML::Atom::Person_ object representing the author of the entry, or `undef` if there is no author information present.

If _$author'' is supplied, it should be an ''XML::Atom::Person_ object representing the author. For example:


	
	    my $author = XML::Atom::Person->new;
	    $author->name('Foo Bar');
	    $author->email('foo@bar.com');
	    $entry->author($author);
	

## $entry->link

If called in scalar context, returns an _XML::Atom::Link'' object corresponding to the first ''<link>_ tag found in the entry.

If called in list context, returns a list of _XML::Atom::Link'' objects corresponding to all of the ''<link>_ tags found in the entry.


## $entry->add_link($link)

Adds the link _$link'', which must be an ''XML::Atom::Link'' object, to the entry as a new ''<link>_ tag. For example:


	
	    my $link = XML::Atom::Link->new;
	    $link->type('text/html');
	    $link->rel('alternate');
	    $link->href('http://www.example.com/2003/12/post.html');
	    $entry->add_link($link);
	

## $entry->get($ns, $element)

Given an _XML::Atom::Namespace'' element ''$ns'' and an element name ''$element_, retrieves the value for the element in that namespace.

This is useful for retrieving the value of elements not in the main Atom namespace, like categories. For example:


	
	    my $dc > 'http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/');
	    my $subj = $entry->get($dc, 'subject');
	

## $entry->getlist($ns, $element)

Just like _$entry->get'', but if there are multiple instances of the element ''$element'' in the namespace ''$ns'', returns all of them. ''get_ will return only the first.


# AUTHOR & COPYRIGHT

Please see the _XML::Atom_ manpage for author, copyright, and license information.

